This is dedicated to finding a challenging SAT benchmark.

The problem is generated by many XOR conditions of the form:
```
x1 x2 x3 0
-x1 -x2 x3 0
x1 -x2 -x3 0
-x1 x2 -x3 0
```

or

```
-x1 -x2 -x3 0
-x1 x2 x3 0
x1 -x2 x3 0
x1 x2 -x3 0
```

The primary challenge is to choose a good selection of xis so that solvers take a long time to find the satisfiability of the problem.

We choose a binary assignment of all variables, to ensure the problem is satisfiable.
We then choose three permutations. The choice of the first permutation doesn't matter, applying its inverse to each of the choices will force the first one to be the identity.
The choice of the second permutation matters only for it's cycle structure. Permuting the variables can force the matrix representation to consist of only blocks with 1s in the off diagonal, and the top right corner.
We choose the cycle structure of the second permutation to be just one full sized cycle.
The last permutation then contains all the rest of the information about the problem.

For each index, the three permutations choose the x1, x2, and x3 that will be used for the clauses.
The initial binary assignment of the variables decides which version of the XOR is added, chosing the one which does not contain the false clause.

The total problem has n variables, 12n clauses, and 36n literals.

This repository has threePermClean.py which is a clean implementation of the problem generation.
This repository has threePermBenchmark.py which benchmarks different ways of generating problems.
The figures have the results of these benchmarks on my machine.

Required packages:

`numpy`

`itertools`

`pysat` (https://pysathq.github.io/) Note that `pip install pysat` is not the correct package

Credit:

This project would not have been possible without the work of Scott Pakin, who created a benchmark very similar to this one, "Two Trees".
